.. autoBWF documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Jul 18 14:34:48 2019.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

autoBWF
===================================
The purpose of ``autoBWF`` is to provide an Python/PyQt5 GUI for embedding internal metadata in WAVE audio files
using the `Broadcast Wave  <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broadcast_Wave_Format>`_ standard, FADGI
`BWFMetaEdit <https://mediaarea.net/BWFMetaEdit>`_, and
`XMP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extensible_Metadata_Platform>`_.

Unlike the existing BWFMetaEdit GUI, autoBWF is extremely opinionated and will automatically generate metadata
content based on file naming conventions, system metadata, and pre-configured repository defaults. In addition, it
can copy metadata fields from a template file to avoid having to enter the same information multiple times
for derivative files of the same physical instantiation.

Also included are two command line programs (``autosplice`` and ``autolame``) which simplify the creation
of derivative files.

Contents
++++++++++++
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   usage
   configuration
   splicelame

Known issues
++++++++++++++

* Reading of XMP data causes a temp file to be created and deleted in the same directory as the WAVE file. This
  may cause a change to the modification time for the directory, which could cause a problem for some digital
  preservation schemes.
* ``autoBWF`` strives to write valid XMP, but when reading Wave files it makes significant assumptions about
  the structure of the XMP XML beyond those mandated by the XMP standard. Therefore, it is capable of reliably
  reading only XMP generated by ``autoBWF`` itself, and metadata written by other software may not be correctly parsed.
